Guest: Ishai Gottlieb

Company: AgroScout LTD

Date: 2023-01-05

Mr. Gottlieb is the Global Sales Director for the company AgroScout
which is an artificial intelligence powered decision support tool that
leverages drone data. He has an undergraduate degree in
Agriculture/Plant Science and Economics for the Hebrew University in
Israel. He originally had dreamed of farming but realized that this was
too expensive to do in Israel. He’s been in sales for 13 years, starting
in finance and then transitioned into working the technology sector. To
give back to the community he did some volunteer teaching of
agricultural curriculum at a primary school in Israel to introduce young
adults to new technologies. Around this time he met Simcha Shore, the
CEO of AgroScout. Simcha provided him with a drone and an educational
license for the software to use at the school and they became friends.
He then was hired in his current role as Global Sales Director which he
has been in for 2 years.

AgroScout offers an artificial intelligence based decision support
software tool based upon drone data that is collected by the customer
using their platform. They provide a multidisciplinary service that is
focused around the customer journey. They provide the customer with a
survey grade data capture tool (UAS and sensor), data storage capacity,
and access to an advanced machine learning/artificial intelligence
analytics platform. One selling point of this product is the
user-friendly interface that enables the customer to easily access,
visualize, and analyze data collected as frequently as they desire. This
really provides the customer with a holistic overview of the crop
production cycle from planting through harvest; enabling them to take
stand counts, schedule irrigation and fertilizer application, and
monitor fields for pests and pathogens. They are continuously improving
their product. Recently, they were able to accurately predict product
yields mid-way through the growing season in a cooperative venture with
Olam (processing company focused on garlic and onion).

The tool works as follows: The user utilizes the drone to fly their
field. The data from the flight is then automatically sent to the cloud
where it is stored and processed. This is very rapid and the customer
receives a receiver report within 30 minutes – 2 hours depending upon
how many images were collected during the flight. Part of their service
is the generation of a prescription map for the field which can be
directly uploaded into sprayer equipment as shape (.shp) files.

The example application presented at the 2023 Potato Expo trade show is
on control of Colorado potato beetle. Their platform flies an RGB drone
at very low altitude and their AI product counts the number of beetles
visible on the canopy in segments of predefined size within the field.
Based upon these counts, it will determine if spraying is needed given a
user defined action threshold.

Their business model is subscription based. They also can/will provide
drone hardware the suits the customer’s application. Unlike some other
drone measurement companies they have the customer fly the drone. The
trade-off is that the customer can fly as many missions as they wish
without any additional cost. One future product they hope to roll out
soon is a completely autonomous drone scouting system, where the drone
is launched from and returns to a communication tower + charging
location and flies missions on a consistent schedule without needing
humans to be present.

AgroScout works in variety of commodities. They started with potato and
tomato. These were chosen for several reasons. First, they felt that
these crops (growth habit, grower problems) provided a good test cases
for generating AI applications. Second, because there are higher value
specialty crops where growers have higher margins than traditional row
crops. They also believe the technology they developed could add value
to grower operations relative to traditional crop scouting techniques
currently being used.

They have since expanded their footprint into corn, soybean, cotton, and
sugarcane. They do some orchard crops including banana, cacao, and are
continuously adding more crops into their portfolio. In 2023, they also
added onion and garlic to their product portfolio.

Current operation spans 21 countries. Industry partners include Simplot,
PepsiCo, AECI Plant Health, Syngenta in Brazil, Olam, and a handful of
smaller operations. Investigating partnerships with Nutrien Ag,
Wilbur-Ellis.

Generally, companies like PepsiCo and AECI pay the license fees for
contracted growers and ask them to use the technology. The data is sent
to both the grower and the parent company. This helps with transparency
for all the players involved.

The value for the grower customer is that they can identify problem
spots early and selectively treat problem areas rather than the entire
field. For chemical companies this can be beneficial too. Customers
sometimes wait too long to spray which reduces the efficacy of the
pesticide product. With this tool they can be aware of issues earlier
and may be willing to purchase premium pest control products if they can
be applied in smaller dosages rather than treating an entire field. Food
processing companies also like being able to track the status of raw
materials received from different growers through their reports. It
helps forecast product supply and gives them a better idea of product
quality before harvest.

Challenges that they have faced have been that the service requires the
customer to do things a little different than they may have done them in
the past. This can be a big challenge, particularly in North America
where folks are fairly set in their way of doing things. Also the
quality of their product has improved since their initial roll out which
requires constant communication with interested parties to demonstrate
their improvements and new features.

Subscription service is calculated by acre or can be purchased as a
blanket license for a research location. The price of a recommended
drone and sensor system can be included in the subscription.
