Guest: Ms. Anju Biswas

Institution: University of Florida

Interview date: 05-12-2022

Ms. Biswas is a Ph.D student at the University of Florida focused on
high-throughput phenotyping and genomic selection as applied in alfalfa.

She is an international student originally form Bangladesh. Growing up
she saw people struggling for food. Agriculture is different in
developing countries like Bangladesh. There is more subsistence farming,
mostly rice and wheat near where she grew up. She wanted to make a
difference in the world and completed an undergraduate degree in the
agricultural sector.

She decided to go abroad to learn new skills and maybe make a more
global impact. She started a Master’s degree in tomato tissue culture
and defended rapidly to wrap up that work. She then transferred to
Delaware State University in 2015 where she applied marker assisted
selection and developed skills in phytochemical analysis. Hungry for
knowledge she wanted to learn more.

The path in higher education is difficult for international students.
She wanted to get a new job and received offers from three positions at:
Alabama A&M, Purdue University and University of Florida. From there she
had to decide where to focus. Based upon her previous experience in
marker assisted selection and phytochemical analysis she considered
working in strawberry but due to funding limitations she switched her
emphasis to quantitative genetics/plant breeding focused on:

1)  High-throughput phenotyping (HTP)

2)  Genomic prediction/selection

3)  Construction of crop growth models

Her goal is to explore HTP for genomic prediction. Her work focuses on
use of UAS to collect in field data, generate field maps. Previous work
has shown that UAS can increase genetic gain over time.

UAS also enables her program to save money on labor. They no longer need
to collect as much data manually and can apply this data to genomic
prediction models. One major goal is to predict harvest yield from one
month to the next.

Another goal is the development of crop growth models through
collaboration with the engineering department. They are building
software to integrate many data types to predict yield or other
characteristics from HTP data.

Ultimately their breeding goal is to develop alfalfa lines adapted to
Florida that are non-dormant. They’d like to shorten the breeding cycle
so they can release cultivars more quickly. She feels that crop growth
and genomic predication models will really help accurately forecast
performance based upon genotype x environment interactions. This can
also be applied to phenomic selection.

Recently she wrote a grant to use UAS to collect hyperspectral data and
use that to predict performance of alfalfa in response to abiotic
stress. This is a cooperation between her and another PI to build the
models and make the germplasm selections.

1.  *<u>What do you consider the biggest barriers to entry for
    implementing a UAS into a research program? </u>*

There are many. Broadly speaking she can name a few.

You need the FAA Part 107 license. Many times students are not
willing/do not have time to study and take the certification exam.
Currently there are only 2 students on her campus that are licensed to
fly drones. She is helping several other programs collect data unrelated
to her primary focus. This is not a huge bottleneck but it is
significant.

Second is knowing how to operate the drone and navigate the weather
conditions. It is important to fly during the same time of day (usually
between 10 AM – 3 PM) and high winds or rain are detrimental to high
quality data collection.

Both the data collection and analysis require technical skills.

Data analysis and long term storage is a major challenge. Development of
workflows/pipelines to extract data from UAS can be a challenge. She
currently uses Agrisoft Metashape for generating orthomosaics and QGIS
for plot level data extraction. It is necessary to have good coding
skills in both R and Python. Data storage is another challenge.
Generally it will need to be stored for more than 5 years.

Program budget is another important consideration. Think about what
sensor types are suitable for the research question and affordable for
the research program. Hyperspectral cameras are very, very expensive but
multispectral cameras are more affordable.

As far as drone choice goes it is important to consider battery life.
She typically uses 2 sets of batteries to fly her fields (20 minutes per
flight). Windy conditions really reduce battery life quickly.

3.  *<u>What are some of the things you wish you had known before you
    began using a UAS for data collection?</u>*

As mentioned earlier, knowing what time of day to fly and the importance
of keeping the same time of day to fly. The important and usefulness of
sensor calibration. She wishes there were more courses on HTP. It would
have been helpful to take one from the beginning before she started her
role at UF. Later she was able to take a course that clarified a lot of
the questions he had.

Instructional resources for Pix4D and Agrisoft Metashape are good. At
the time, she didn’t have much knowledge so she developed some of her
own tools using Python. QGIS is a good tool but it takes a little bit of
time investment to learn. A lot of her learning has been from scratch.

No real guidance on drone speed, overlap, capture rate, and altitude for
data collection.

> *<u>4.      What educational resources have you found most useful when
> developing your own skillset with UAS-based imaging? </u>*

She recommends John R. Jensen’s book titled: “Introductory Digital Image
Processing: A Remote Sensing Perspective”.

She also recommends attending the North American Plant Phenotyping
Network (NAPPN) conference. This has been really useful because she
doesn’t know many other folks that are using this approach on her
campus. She really enjoyed the conference. It is really good for
connecting people with different skills and applications in HTP. Good to
find experts, cooperators and recent articles.

There is no alternative to reading the current literature.

> *<u>5.      Are there other comments you believe would benefit an
> agricultural researcher considering implementation of a UAS into their
> research program? </u>*

She thinks that UAS will be most useful for crop management/precision
ag. applications and also for plant breeding as applied in genomic
selection. She likes that there is no bias associated with the
phenotypic measurements from UAS and you are able to collect a large
number of phenotypes easily and rapidly. This helps characterize
germplasm and inform selection.

They typically use 4 ground control points per field (one in each
corner)

They typically perform data collection flights on a weekly basis and
measure plant height the same day as each flight (as a back up, not
primary measurement). They collect biomass measurements once a month
through destructive harvest and fly directly before each harvest.

As far as guidance on drones and sensors she says that utility really
depends upon the plant architecture.

Ultimately, you need to have a solid plan, budget, and goal before you
purchase anything. You also need to have good collaborators or areas
where you can access folks that have the technical skills outside of
your knowledge area.
