Guest: Dr. Francisco (Paco) Gonzalez

Institution: USDA-ARS

Interview Date: 05-06-22

<u>Background:</u>

Dr. Gonzalez is a Research Plant Physiologist with the USDA-ARS Forage
Seed and Cereal Research Unit stationed in Prosser, WA. He has a Ph.D in
Horticulture from Washington State University focused on agronomy
applications in potato. He recently accepted a Research Physiologist
position with the USDA-ARS focused on agronomy in hops.

Paco’s experience has been sort of unique. UAS data collection was not
part of his Ph.D project. His graduate study advisor was not excited
about using this technology. It was generally felt that UAS was
unnecessary and a waste of time and resources. He really felt that UAS
could be a useful tool to capture their trials from a different
perspective and that could end up being a useful management tool. He
purchased a personal drone and began flying his experimental fields in
Othello, WA every two weeks. He started with and DJI Inspire 1 but found
that the battery capacity was too small (12 minute flight time) and that
the imagery from the camera wasn’t great. He wanted to upgrade to a
multispectral camera and purchased a used MicaSense RedEdge camera. Next
he bought a DJI Mavic 2 Pro which provided great RGB images. This drone
performed well due to good stability and accurate GPS coordinates
(usually \< 3 meters of variation between images).

Once he showed his advisor data from the field season they could see
clear spatial patterns within the field (some regions of the field had
strips of yellow foliage) which enabled them to exclude those plot data
from the trials because the data was not representative of the overall
field experiment.

1.  *<u>What do you consider the biggest barriers to entry for
    implementing a UAS into a research program? </u>*

Convincing other folks that these data types have value. Can you make
this work within your program for your research question? He
acknowledges that this may be a challenge in hops which have a much
different growth habit than potato.

Getting the FAA Part 107 license can be a major limiting bottleneck.

Also finding a UAS system that provides the appropriate level of
functionality at a modest price point has been historically difficult.
The entry price point is particularly high for someone interested in
using multispectral sensors.

*<u>2. What do you consider to be the most and least promising
applications of UAS-based imaging for agricultural research?  </u>*

Field scouting to narrow search space. It is much easier to look for
problems in the middle of field using a drone than needing to walk into
the field and look. If problem areas can be identified from a drone than
more time can be spent looking at regions that look potentially
problematic for diagnosis, etc.

Building digital surface models for fields can be very helpful for
understanding water dynamics. This is really important for wheat growers
in the Palouse region. The need to know where to install drainage tiles.

3.  *<u>What are some of the things you wish you had known before you
    began using a UAS for data collection?</u>*

Color/radiometric calibration and correction is really important for
interpretation of multispectral data.

> *<u>4.      What educational resources have you found most useful when
> developing your own skillset with UAS-based imaging? </u>*

Google is a great resource. Identifying the correct search terms can
sometimes be difficult. He also recommends private courses and believes
that YouTube would benefit from people developing practical video
tutorials on that resource.

> *<u>5.      Are there other comments you believe would benefit an
> agricultural researcher considering implementation of a UAS into their
> research program? </u>*

Talk to others already working in this domain before you begin.
Particularly to folks how find value in the technology and those who
don’t. He recommends listening to advice from experts in the field and
if possible trying out a drone and sensor platform before you purchase
one yourself.

His general feelings are that satellite imagery will be the source of
remote sensing data for industry (most farmers and agricultural
companies) whereas drones are better for agricultural research (smaller,
plot based studies).

In regards to field design, it is useful to have good separation between
experimental plots. Weed control is important. Ground control points are
important. He uses at least 8 in a 15 acre field and spreads them out as
evenly as possible. The coordinates for each point are determined using
a RTK module.

Generally, during his Ph.D study he collected ground truth data (petiole
nutrient analysis) every 2 weeks during the field season.

In the past he has found Agrisoft Metashape a very useful tool for
generation of orthomosaics but notes that use of this software is no
longer allowed by USDA-ARS. He previously used the FIELDImageR package
for plot level data extraction.

Areas that he feels would help adoption include:

1)  Easy access to training resources, particularity for FAA Part 107
    licensing and recertification.

2)  Creation of data extraction programs and workflows that are easy to
    use (Agrisoft Metashape for example).
